1.1

The puzzle consists of an area divided into a grid: 3x3 with one square empty
Thus, there are eight tiles in the puzzle. A tile that is next to the empty grid
square can be moved into the empty space, leaving its previous position empty in
turn. Tiles are numbered, 1 to 8 so that each tile can be uniquely identified.

This can be seen as a search problem, as each solution can have the optimal
number of tiles to move. Therefore, each tile move will give a better or worse
position. Starting from an initial node, the problem can be approached by aiming
to find a path to the given solved puzzle goal node having the smallest cost
(least moved tiles).


1.2.1

A * algorithm is a searching algorithm that searches for the shortest path
between the initial and the final state. The A* algorithm has 3 parameters:

g : the cost of moving from the initial cell to the current cell.
The sum of all the cells that have been visited since leaving the first cell.

h : The heuristic value, it is the estimated cost of moving from the current
cell to the final cell. The actual cost will be calculated when the final cell
is reached, ensuring h is never an over estimation of the cost. An algorithm is
said to be admissible if it never overestimates the cost of reaching the goal.

f : The sum of g and h. Therefore f(n) = g(n) + h(n)
where n is a node.
Admissible if: 0 ≤ h(N) ≤ h*(N)

h(n) is calculated using the heuristic function. With a non-admissible
heuristic, the A* algorithm could overlook the optimal solution to a search
problem due to an overestimation in f(n).



1.2.2
An admissible heuristic never overestimates the cost of reaching the goal.
Using an admissible heuristic will always result in an optimal solution.

1: Sum of Manhattan distances of the tiles from their
goal positions. Each tile will have a set of moves to its desired location
Since you can only move the tiles 1 at a time and in only one of 4 directions,
the optimal scenario for each block is that it has a clear, unobstructed path
to its goal state.

2: The Hamming distance (Number of misplaced tiles). This is an admissible
heuristic, as every tile that is out of position must be moved at least once to its
destination goal.

I choose these functions because for a given problem with a fixed value of the
dimensionality, it is be preferable to use the Manhattan Distance as it is the
most preferable for high dimensional applications. As we have 2D plane, Euclidean
distance would not be an appropriate approach. The hamming distance will always
be known to move a tile if is out of the goal position.



1.2.4
